Background information on Travis Bell Bryan Jr.
He was born on April 14, 1922, in Houston, Texas.
His wife's given and maiden name is Norma Norman.
His children are Travis B. Bryan III and Timothy N.
Bryan. His present position is the chairman of the
board of the First National Bank of Bryan. He was
educated at Stephen F. Austin High School in
Bryan, Texas. He got his BS in business
administration from Texas A&M University. His
church membership is the First Baptist Church of
Bryan, Texas. His honor recognitions are
president of Bryan College Station Chamber of
Commerce in 1960, chairman of the Bryan United
Fund in 1957, 58, 69, and 74, He was also the
chairman of the Salvation Army Unit of Bryan,
board of directors of Bryan City Mission,
president of the Knife and Fork Club in 1959,
Commander of American Legion for two years.
President of Bryan YMCA. Advisor and board of the
Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in
69, 70, and 71. He's a member of the Masonic Lodge
and 32 Degree Mason. Board of Directors of Bryan
Public Library. School board of Bryan Public
Schools. Board of Directors, Mary Hardin,
Baylor, and Belton, Texas. And the president of
the Bryan City Mission and winner of 97 golf
tournaments.
As I understand it, it was your great-grandfather
that founded Bryan and gave land for it to be
settled upon? That's right, yes. Once
upon a time, there was a man named Moses Austin who
lived in Missouri and had an idea of colonizing
Texas. which was a wilderness at that time, and a
part of Mexico, a province of Mexico.
Before Moses Austin could realize his dream of the
colonization of Texas, he died. He had a son named
Stephen F. Austin, who later became known as the
father of Texas. Stephen F. Austin went to Mexico
and prevailed on the Mexican government to
appoint him as the impresario to
colonize Texas and to fulfill, therefore, his
father's dream. So Austin then came back to Texas,
even after he spent some time in jail in Mexico,
prompted by this wild dream of his, so to speak,
came back to Texas and went about the business of
colonizing the state or the area.
His sister, Emily Austin, had married a fellow
named James Bryan, and they had three sons,
William Joel Bryan, Moses Austin Bryan, and Guy M.
Bryan. Well, each of these nephews of Stephen F.
Austin came into consideration for some land. The
particular land that we're sitting on here today
called Bryan, Texas, was given to William Joel
Bryan, who is my great-grandfather,
incidentally.
And he then set up a township and named it after
himself, Bryan, Texas. There was a community at
Boonville, which is a few miles to the east of us,
inhabited by a few citizens, and he moved them over
here and laid out the town and prevailed on the
railroad to come on down from Marlin, I believe.
Marlin, Texas was as far as it came at the time.
prevailed on the railroad to bring its tracks on
down to Bryan. And incidentally, he rode the cow
catcher on the engine into town on the first trip by
the railroad into Bryan.
He
named Bryan as the county seat for the county of
Brazos. And he sold the land up where the
courthouse is today to the county for $1.
In his efforts to get the railroad to come through
town, he gave the land for that. He sold the
railroad, the property, the right of way for $1 for
the tracks to go on. And he did all in his power to
organized a town which he did and today is named
Bryan, Texas.
That's really it in a nutshell is how it all
happened and I
think that
the A&M University
was organized by the state of Texas when his
brother, Guy Bryan, was Speaker of the House of
Representatives of the state. So I
realized that with all this and 15 cents, I can get a
cup of coffee. I am very proud of the effect on this
area that my relatives had. I don't know what else
you might want to know about it, but that, as I said a
moment ago, is it in a nutshell, Mr. Lippincott.
Well, has there been any disasters or anything
since you've been here, like yellow fever in 1867
or something like that, epidemics? No, I don't
know of any epidemics or any disasters other than
the weather. We've had a tornado or two. I don't
think there's been any kind of disaster in this
area, to my knowledge. It's been a real good place
to live. It's a good place to rear a family. It's
known as a city of churches and schools. We have a
fine school system. every kind of religious
denomination you can think of here.
The fact that the greatest university in the land,
Texas A&M is next door is quite attractive to
people living in this area. It offers advantages
that other communities do not have.
Incidentally,
Bryan College Station today is the fastest
growing city in Texas. And Texas A&M University is
the fastest growing university in the nation. So
the little thing started by the Bryans many years
ago has grown to a burgeoning community and one
that we can all be proud of. and that uh one that
seems to be destined
for tremendous success in the future that's
it thank you very much